[DIGITAL EFFECT]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> It's interesting that as
you extricate yourself from
your identification
with your separateness,
your whole feeling
about death changes.
Because the part of you that
isn't separate isn't coming
and it isn't going.
There's no birth and there's
no death, you just are.
But because that part of you
is not knowable by your mind,
your mind keeps
denying its existence.
The part of you that is not
in form is only be-able,
it's not knowable.
And the mind goes
up the wall trying
to figure out how to
control that part of you.
And for us to stretch
to handle what
seems like a paradox to the
mind, that it's all perfect
and it's horrible, that
there's nothing to do really,
so get on with it, you start
to embrace the human condition
into yourself.
Like if you live
fully in this moment,
does this moment
include that baby
that's taking its last
breath from starvation?
Yeah.
So are you sad?
Yes.
Does it include the baby
taking its first breath
as it comes out of
its mother's womb
and the joy of the beginning?
Yes.
So you're happy.
If you are the fullness
of the moment, all of it,
these are all your voices.
If you and I are
to be free, there
is nothing we can push away.
When you have
extricated yourself
from your own
egocentric predicament
and when you have tasted
the emptiness of all forms,
then your action comes out
of the collective quality
of the situation, and the
suffering of another person
is something you do not
because I'm helping you,
but because it is
healing itself.
And you're not
collecting points for it.
You are merely tuning
yourself to being
part of the harmony of things.
It's like you're dying into
the perfection of it all,
which includes the
beauty of your mind.
But it's the servant.
It's available, but you are no
longer trapped inside of it.
It's just the subtlest
flip in where you
are in relation to who you are.
Before, you identified
with the clouds.
Now, you understand that you
are the sky and the clouds.
As you extricate yourself
from your somebodyness,
from your thoughts,
which are things,
from your body, which is
things or stuff, who you
are has no time, has no space.
It's not here.
It's here.
With that quietness comes a
way of being in the universe.
It's like you are part,
you are one with it all.
So that the action that you
perform is a separate entity
arises out of the collective
wisdom of the situation.
Rather than doing it in
an angular way cut off
from everything, you start to
trust your intuitive heart.
And under those
conditions, you start
to become responsive to
the world around you,
rather than reactive.
Because your mind is part of
law, it's all cause and effect
and it's all reactive.
The minute you're in
that awareness behind it,
you're free.